=head1 NAME

wol - Wake On LAN client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

wol [I<OPTION>] ... I<MAC-ADDRESS> ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual gives you an introduction into C<wol>, the Wake On LAN client.
It remotely turns on computers that supports Magic Packet technology
(also known as Wake On LAN).

Some workstations support SecureON password feature. These machines only
wake up if you provide the correct password. C<wol> also provides this
feature.

=head1 OPTIONS


=over 4


=item B<--help>


Print a summary of the command line options.



=item B<-V>


=item B<--version>


Print the version number of C<wol>.



=item B<-h HOST>


=item B<--host=HOST>


=item B<-i HOST>


=item B<--ipaddr=HOST>


Broadcast packet to this IP address or hostname. This is important if your wol
client is a multihomed host and you want to send only to one subnet
(default IP address is C<255.255.255.255>).



=item B<-p NUM>


=item B<--port=NUM>


Send packet with this destination port I<NUM>. This option is important if
your packet filter would block the default destination port C<40000>.



=item B<-f FILE>


=item B<--file=FILE>


Read hardware addresses, IP addresses/hostnames, optional ports and SecureON
password from file F<FILE>. If F<FILE> is I<-> C<wol> reads from
stdin.



=item B<->


Read hardware addresses, IP addresses, optional ports and optional SecureON
password from stdin. So you can extract I<MAC-ADDRESSES> from any source
and pipe the data into C<wol> so.



=item B<-v>


=item B<--verbose>


Turns on verbose output.



=item B<-w NUM>


=item B<--wait=NUM>


Waits I<NUM> milliseconds between Magic Packets. Also known as fuse health
pack.



=item B<--passwd[=PASS]>


Send a magic packet with SecureON password feature. I<PASS> is written as
x-x-x-x-x-x, where x is a hexadecimal number between 0 and ff which represents
one byte of the password.

If you don't provide I<PASS> C<wol> prompts you for a password.

To set the password of your SecureON capable NIC, you can use
C<ethtool> (E<lt>B<http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/gkernel/>E<gt>).


=back


=head1 BUGS

Please report bugs to E<lt>B<krennwallner@aon.at>E<gt>. Feel free to send bug
reports, translations, improvement suggestions and patches to this email
address.

=head1 SEE ALSO

GNU info entry for F<wol>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Thomas Krennwallner E<lt>krennwallner@aon.atE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2003,2004 Thomas Krennwallner E<lt>B<krennwallner@aon.at>E<gt>

This document may be distributed and modified under the terms of the GNU
General Public License.

This manual is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.

This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but without any
warranty; without even the implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

A copy of the GNU General Public License is available on the World Wide Web at
the GNU website. You can also obtain it by writing to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

